---
layout: page
title:  "International AI Trends"
date:   2023-11-07
categories: Policy
---
In recent years, the world has witnessed the rapid emergence of artificial intelligence (AI) as a transformative technology with profound economic and social implications. Nations across the globe are recognising the potential of AI and its diverse applications, ranging from business and healthcare to transportation and education. To be able to harness the benefits of AI across sectors of society, education will be instrumental in the use and adoption of the technology and in the development of future talent. The education sector has and will need to continue adapting to the changing context of this century through considered implementation of emerging digital technologies. 
This summary outlines the key themes of the global AI strategy and policy landscape, with a particular focus on the education space.
<ol>
<li>1.	Leading AI Development</li>
A notable trend in the landscape of national AI policies is the competitive race among nations to establish themselves as global leaders in AI. Countries such as the UK, Australia, Finland, and Singapore are actively seeking to leverage AI's transformative potential for economic growth and are aiming to lead the implementation and development of AI. New Zealand has a thriving commercial AI landscape with many organisations adopting AI systems for data processing, automating business processes, improving customer relationship management and to support decision making. AI in EdTech will also be a growing area, New Zealand has many edtech companies and startups including Education Perfect which has been used in over 60 countries and has previously partnered with New Zealand Parliament to develop modules on civics education.  
<li>2.	Talent Development</li>
The growth of AI technology demands not only developers and engineers, but also experts from a wide range of backgrounds and disciplines who can ensure its safety and beneficial outcomes. Developing and retaining AI talent is a critical component of effective implementation, and nations are investing in education and training programs to meet this need. Australia, for example, has set up grant programs and scholarships for the development of AI solutions to regional problems and industry focused research projects. Around the world there is a scarcity of AI talent and an AI skills gap in workplaces, therefore upskilling the current and future workforce will be necessary. 
<li>3.	National Centres of Expertise</li>
Countries have established or are establishing national centres of expertise that bring together researchers, businesses, and governments (eg. UK’s Alan Turing Institute, Finnish Centre for AI). These centres serve as hubs for the adoption and development of AI technology. They foster collaboration, innovation, and knowledge-sharing, enabling nations to stay on the cutting edge of AI advancements and develop local products. Cross-disciplinary AI research is occurring across New Zealand universities, but increased investment and a coordinated national approach should be considered to strengthen the research to application pipeline.
<li>4.	Ethical Standards in AI</li>
The rise of AI also brings a set of concerns, including the potential exacerbation of inequality, the spread of disinformation and misinformation, issues of unexplainability and bias, and data privacy challenges. Addressing these concerns is essential for the responsible adoption of AI, and as AI technology advances, ethical considerations have come to the forefront. Standards are emerging related to transparency of use, testing for fairness and non-bias, human control and oversight, maintaining privacy, and accountability of tech companies. These ethical standards are crucial for ensuring the responsible and equitable deployment of AI in all domains. The European Commission has put out ethical guidelines for the use of AI and data in teaching and learning for educators. Australia has also drafted a framework for schools for guidance on the ethical and safe use of AI, which will also be needed in the New Zealand context. 
<li>5.	Assessment and Content</li>
The education sector has recently been responding to the availability of publicly available generative AI (e.g. ChatGPT, DallE).  The integrity of assessment, certifications and qualifications will need to be upheld. Strategies for improving assessment design include: asking students to demonstrate evaluative judgement, incorporating authentic, context-specific or personal assignments, demonstrating the learning process (e.g. checkpoints throughout a learning program), group-work & feedback or in-class discussions and also changing formats (e.g. video, podcast, website, pen & paper). Projects around online hubs for digital content, particularly in higher education (e.g. Ontario, Canada’s eCampus, Finland’s Digivision 2030), are emerging to enhance the learning experience. Singapore is pioneering the use of AI in their digital education platform, implementing personalised recommendation algorithms for student learning at the primary school math level. New Zealand Curriculum Online currently provides digital resources and assessments, though there is a wide scope for extending the platform and better integration for users in education settings.
<li>6.	Diversity and Inclusivity</li>
Adopting AI technology requires an interdisciplinary approach involving diverse perspectives. Governance of AI is a recent area of global discussion which could include assessment of risks and benefits, developing best practices through research and collaboration, licensing around data or computing power and auditing the outcomes of algorithms and AI. The UK has set up an AI standards hubs and governance structures to ensure the responsible and standardized use of AI technologies. New Zealand's education strategy places learners at the centre, prioritizing safe, inclusive spaces and reducing barriers. A focus on equity around learners’ needs can help ensure that AI integration in education settings will benefit all students, irrespective of their background. AI models have the potential to homogenize information and knowledge, occluding the perspectives and voices of minority groups. The data used to inform the AI models should ideally be representative of the population using or affected by the output, however there is the important consideration of data ownership and sovereignty.
</ol>